##Project Proposal 

1) The project proposal is max 800 words. 
2) The project description must contain: 
  - a research question (RQ), 
  - a thesis statement
  - a description of the dataset
  - an action plan
  - a team chart

The relevance of the RQ should be based on a minimum of 3 articles/books on the topic;

The thesis statement is the solution/answer to the RQ that you want to investigate;

The dataset you will use to answer/investigate your RQ should be problematized (e.g., what are the advantages and limitations of the dataset?);

A short description of how you think you need to process, model, and expand the data based on your RQ (use the data scope steps and/or Template_Dataset_evaluation.docx* -> See Template dataset

Clear references to the literature you used in an official academic style;
Think of the the team charter as your team's log. It should describe the team members (i.e., composition, backgrounds, academic disciplines, etc.), clearly state deliverables and deadlines, foreseen and actual challenges and opportunities, potential pitfalls, means of collaborations and communications, frequency of meetings, division in work packages, timeline, and so on. 


##Template for assignment Dataset evaluation for research
Evaluating a dataset for answering research questions can be subdivided into different steps
that move from the dataset to formulating a research question that you want to answer with it
to the plan you make to answer the research question. They are outlined below. For the
assignment, make a document in which you answer these questions.
Dataset
• What is the nature of the dataset you want to use;
• What is it about;
• Where does it come from;
• Who made it;
• What is the size;
• Which variables does it contain;
• What technical format is it in, can you handle that, or can you transform it to a format
you can handle;
Research question
• what sort of questions (related to your research) could you use this dataset and for
what sort of questions is it unusable.
• (re)formulate your research question so that you can answer it with the dataset. Note:
You may need to reconsider this point when you make your plan because working with the data will
give you new insights.
• If necessary (it usually) is, subdivide it into smaller questions and steps that you can
answer directly with the dataset
Plan
• Are the data in the dataset complete and consistent enough to give reliable answers to
the main question and the sub-questions you formulated? If not, how can you make it
more consistent, or can you think of ways to get missing information?
• Can you answer your question straight away, or do you need to do it in different steps
(this is usually the case). Specify them as separate operations and answer the questions
on the transformations below on them.
• What transformations does your dataset need to prepare it for automatic processing?
Think of:
o Selecting the data: throwing away parts of the set before you start processing
because they are not complete enough, do not fall into the limits of you
research question for some reason etc.
o Modelling: are the data in the form required for your research question or do
they need to be remodelled? This can be simple transforming them into
another format, or discarding parts of the data that are not relevant to answer
your question.
o Normalization: of dates, of persons, titles, words etc. What variation is
important, and what should be eliminated? What happens if you do not
normalise?
o Linking different types of data within the dataset or with other information
elsewhere
Classifying: are the data too complex to answer your questions and can they be
classified into different types. On what grounds? Try to find formal
classifications
o definitions for the classifications. Can the classification be performed by an
automated process, or should you do it manually, or a combination of both
Please note:
- This evaluation template is a practical tool designed to make a systematic evaluation. It does not include
selecting a dataset for your research, let alone trying to formulate research questions as such. Obviously, these
are important steps as well, but they fall outside of the scope of this document
- Remember that a dataset can usually be used to answer many more questions than you can come up with. This
template is meant to answer a specific research question. Do not try to be complete beyond that, as it will only
confuse you.
- The questions are meant to make you think (in a systematic way) about a dataset in relation to your research.
Treat them as such, not as a questionnaire
